# Forms and JS Events

## HTML Forms
## Your first Web Form. How To Structure A Web Form.

### 1. Why are forms so important in web development?
Web forms are a great way for websites to interact with users. They are mostly used for collecting data from users, and/or allowing them to control a user interface.

### 2. When designing a form, what are some key things to keep in mind when it comes to user experience?
- Keep it simple. 
- Easey to use.
- Easy to understand.
- Focused on task.

### 3. List 5 form elements and explain their importance.
- `<form>` - A container like element like a section. It can also hold attributes.
- `<label>` - The label text is not only visually associated with its corresponding text input; it is programmatically associated with it too. This means that, for example, a screen reader will read out the label when the user is focused on the form input, making it easier for an assistive technology user to understand what data should be entered.
- `<input>` - The <input> HTML element is used to create interactive controls for web-based forms in order to accept data from the user; a wide variety of types of input data and control widgets are available, depending on the device and user agent. The <input> element is one of the most powerful and complex in all of HTML due to the sheer number of combinations of input types and attributes.
- `<textarea>` - The <textarea> HTML element represents a multi-line plain-text editing control, useful when you want to allow users to enter a sizeable amount of free-form text, for example a comment on a review or feedback form.
- `<button>` - The <button> HTML element is an interactive element activated by a user with a mouse, keyboard, finger, voice command, or other assistive technology. Once activated, it then performs an action, such as submitting a form or opening a dialog.


## Learn JS
## Introduction To Events.

### 1. How would you describe events to a non-technical friend?
Events are things that happen in the system you are programming, which the system tells you about so your code can react to them.

For example, if the user clicks a button on a webpage, you might want to react to that action by displaying an information box. In this article, we discuss some important concepts surrounding events, and look at how they work in browsers. This won't be an exhaustive study; just what you need to know at this stage.

### 2. When using the addEventListener() method, what 2 arguments will you need to provide?
Objects to fire an event and a Function to call.

### 3. Describe the event object. Why is the target within the event object useful?
event can be triggered by the user action e.g. clicking the mouse button or tapping keyboard, or generated by APIs to represent the progress of an asynchronous task. It is automatically passed to event handlers to provide extra features and information.

### 4. What is the difference between event bubbling and event capturing?
Event bubbling describes how the browser handles events targeted at nested elements.  
Event Capture is like event bubbling but the order is reversed: so instead of the event firing first on the innermost element targeted, and then on successively less nested elements, the event fires first on the least nested element, and then on successively more nested elements, until the target is reached.